so this is my review for the Shimpo
aspire pottery wheel I cannot say enough
good things about this wheel we actually
bought four of these for some classes
that I was teaching our local museum
here the reason we bought them is
because they were almost the cheapest
new wheel that you can buy on the market
if not the cheapest but they're super
light super portable and we don't have a
permanent pottery space at our museum so
these are great because we can just pick
them up put them on tables I mean we
even put them on fairly rickety card
tables or like banquet type tables that
are portable tables and it works really
great as you can see some of the
features here were closer this is a it
comes with a couple of removable bats so
you can take your pottery off I mean
obviously you can see this wheel is well
used there's good reason for it because
it's a workhorse it has this nice
removable splash pan and you just take
that right off of there and go wash it
it actually has two platforms up here
which I just have covered with clay
right now from project but you can
actually put tools and water up there
you can see all these little projects
over here that I've made using this
wheel and these are just real simple
things I've got a plate sitting over
here but as you can see I'm sitting
outside with this wheel I've just got it
sitting on my back porch
I'm just throwing outside in the
sunshine and it I mean it's absolutely
amazing I'm going to show you I'm going
to go ahead and do a little
demonstration for you here
throw a pot so you can see just how
impressive this thing is I was have to
admit I was a little concerned when I
first bought this wheel I've seen those
little toy wheels and it seems like
everybody always buys those totally
wheels they're probably 25 or 50 dollars
you can buy them and so many little kids
have bad experiences with those because
they actually try to use them and then
they realize that it's not really a real
pottery wheel it barely spins the motor
is battery-powered so I just I was
apprehensive about buying a wheel that
was going to be crappy that wasn't going
to be stable you know when you put
pressure on this to Center you have to
make sure that it's not going to slide
back forth and this thing's just heavy
enough and it's got really great rubber
bumpers on the bottom that hold it
really steady as you can see it's not
doing any wobbling on me has a lot of
power I've never pushed on this thing
hard enough to make it strain I don't
think I could
it says the manufacturers say that it
will Center up to 25 pounds of clay
which if you don't know what 25 pounds
of clay is that's a block about this big
and that's a whole bag of clay and I
can't even Center 25 pounds of clay
doesn't matter how strong the wheel is
that's really difficult
but as you can see it's got plenty of
power playing speed pretty quiet I'm
talking over the over the sound of the
wheel and I shouldn't be having too much
trouble hearing me they're really great
speed control so as I'm throwing I can
just slow it down to a nice reasonable
speed get straight back to throwing oops
I because this is an immovable splash
ban you have to make sure it's locked on
I I was demonstrating that and I left it
unlocked but see that I mean just a
dream to throw with the speed control is
really great because you can go all the
way down in some ways this has better
control than some of the really
expensive freestanding wheels that I
found you do control with this little
lever with your hand which is actually
kind of nice in my opinion because
especially for beginners when you're
trying to push on the pedal with your
foot and think about your hands it gets
kind of confusing this way you set the
speed and just leave it and you can go
back in here and trim the rim off or do
whatever you need to do super slow
motion to prove gliding and I mean yeah
it's just it's just a phenomenal will